# Migrate from v1
The plugin version 1.x is only compatible with Vue 2 and now considered as deprecated.
Following the End of Life for Vue 2, the v1 will not receive any updates, probably only critical bug fixes.

Vue 3 compatible version v2 is the default version and actively maintained. For the v3 release, new features
are planned, and the whole code base rewrite with modern Vue 3 syntax and TypeScript for better modularization and 
customization possibilities.

## v2.0.0 - Vue 3 release

Vue 3 compatible release with new features, fixes, a lot of internal code refactorings and usability improvements.
Following the current Vue 3 ecosystem, v2 initially has been released as `next` tag.
Since v2.2.0 the v2 is distributed as `latest`.

The release contains several breaking
changes, introduces new options to provide more customization possibilities and makes with 150+ new tests the code base
more reliable.

### ⚠️ Breaking Changes and migration

- **Build with Vue 3**: Release is not compatible with Vue 2.x. The initialization process has changed.

  You have to import and initialize the component in Vue 3 manner:
  ```js
  import { createApp } from "vue";
  import veProgress from "vue-ellipse-progress";
  createApp(App).use(veProgress);
  ```
  Please note that the default plugin name has changed and you use the component like follows:
  ```vue
  <ve-progress :progress="50" />
  ```
  You will find more details in the [installation guide](../guide/installation.md).

- Removed `legendValue` option: It is now **[`legend`](../guide/options/legend.md)**. The option `legendValue` just has
  to be renamed to `legend`. The old usage of `legend` must be renamed to
  **[`hideLegend`](../guide/options/hideLegend.md)**. The following code from v1:
  ```vue
  <vue-ellipse-progress :legend="true" :legendValue="123.56" />
  ```
  should be converted to:
  ```vue
  <ve-progress :hideLegend="false" :legend="123.56" />
  ```
- Old `legend` option renamed to **[`hideLegend`](../guide/options/hideLegend.md)**: Just rename `legend` to
  `hideLegend`. Also note that you have to revert the
  Boolean value.

- **[`lineMode`](../guide/options/lineMode.md)** default mode `normal` renamed to `center`.

- Slot `legend-value` renamed to **[`legend`](../guide/slots/legend.md)**.

### ✅ New features

- Added options **[`linePosition`](../guide/options/linePosition.md)**, 
  **[`emptyLinePosition`](../guide/options/emptyLinePosition.md)**, **[`loader`](../guide/options/loader.md)**.
- Improved simple legend formatting with **[`legend`](../guide/options/legend.md)**.
- Improved animated counter properties that can be used in **[`legendFormatter`](../guide/options/legendFormatter.md)** and **[`default slot`](../guide/slots/default.md)**.
- Component can be imported directly, no more restricted to the usage as a plugin.
